# v2.0.0

Argme v2.0.0 is a major release with potentially breaking changes from the previous release.

## Breaking Changes

- Dealing with none string values:  --abc=true previously returned {abc: "true"}, but will now return {abc: true}.  You should therefore be explicit if you need a string returned value for numbers and booleans by encapsulating them withing quotation marks.

- Dealing with options object:  An options object { properties: { abc: '123'} } was converted to a number although a string value was supplied.  It will now remain a string value unless you explicitely want a number by removing the quotations.

## Features

### Arrays

Introducing new ways of adding array properties:

- You can now add arrays by adding properties multiple times (i.e. --abc="this" --abc="that" will return { abc: ["this", "that"] }).

- Array values can also now be explicitely set through the "type" operator (i.e. ~abc="this, that", will return { abc: ["this", "that"] }).

-  Arrays can contain other arrays, by adding [ comma separated values... ] to the array type operator.

-  Arrays can contain other objects, by adding { proper json code... } to the array type operator.

### JsonObjects

Introducing a new way for adding json objects:

- You can add a json object by setting a "type" operator to ~~ (i.e. ~~abc="a: true, b: 123" will return { abc: { a: true, b: 123 } }).

-  Objects may contain other objects by starting with { and ending with }.

-  Objects may contain other arrays by starting a value with [ and ending with ].

### Type Operators

In previous versions there were only 3 type operators:

-  No type operator: All values without a type operator will be added to the _ property on the return object.

- Single - operator: Short properties, which will convert -abc to {a: true, b: true, c: true} as return value.

- Double - operator: which is the normal property operator i.e. --abc=123 will return { abc: 123 }.

This release introduce 2 new type operators:

- Single ~ operator:  This is to indicate that the value is a type of array.  Therefore ~abc='yes, no' will return { abc: [ 'yes', 'no'] }

- Double ~ operator:  This is to indicate that the value is a type of json Object.  Therefore ~~abc='a: "yes", b: "no"' will return {abc: {a: 'yes', b: 'no'}}

### Additional Options

There are now additional options to control the return value:

- **ignoreDubplicates** - This is set to control how double properties are dealt.  By default supplying 2 different properties with the same name will create an array.  Setting this to true will result in the first set value to remain the property value.

- **duplicateOverride** - This is the opposite of the above setting.  If this is set then the new value will replace the old value if there is duplicate properties supplied.

- **ignoreBoolDuplicates** - In general all duplicate properties are passed to an array for that property.  However to sit with a bunch of true, false values does not make any sense either and therefore one has the option to ignore viewing properties as "duplicate properties" when the value is set to a type of boolean.

- **map** - If short properties are used, you now can set a map from short property values to proper full property names.  therefore -abc with an options object of {map: {a: 'alpha'}} will retrun {alpha: true, b: true, c: true}.

### Map

We now have the ability to Map short properties to full properties by adding a map object to the options object.  See example above under [map](#additional-options).

### Dealing With Bools and Numbers

You all bool or number values that is not surrounded with quotation marks will be considered as a bool or a number value and the value will automatically be converted to the bool or number value.

### Escape Handling

Passing the escape character will be honoured where possible.  Therefore --abc=\\'123 will return {abc: "'123"}  However --abc='123 should be converted to { abc: 123 }

You can also escape = or :.

### Perceived Mistakes

It will attempt to be more forgiving when it comes to dealing with perceived human errors.

- Opening quotes that are not escaped without closing quotes will be considered automatically closing at the end of the string value.

- Opening brackets without closing brackets ([] or {}) will be considered automatcially to close at the end of the string value.

- Short properties that are followed by an equal sign will be considered as a full property.  i.e. -abc=123 will return { abc: 123} and not {a: 123/true, b: 123/true, c: 123/true}  Should you want a, b and c to have returned 123, this can be done by either removing the equal (i.e. -abc123) or by replacing the equal with a space (i.e. -abc 123).

- Quotations within property names are automatically removed unless escaped.

### String Values As Argme Parameter

You now have the option to pass string values to the argme function.  This will compile to the string array through using a CLI compiler, which will attempt to divide a string in the similar way as the node compiler will do.  Therefore be causious on the use of quotations.

### Passing An Options Object Through The CLI Or As String
npm 
You can now add an options object directly through the CLI variables.  Any by using either --^='...' or ~~^='....' as an additional property set.  Please note that the **^** property value will pass through the CLI compilation twice and will affect how quotations are handled.  It is therefore advised to always use the ~~^ option and compile directly to an Options object instead.

## Depricated

- parse has now been set as depricated.  It will still work for the time being and will be remoed in the next major release.  It is advised to convert to argme function.

- parseArgs has now been set as depricated.  It will still work for the time being and will be removed in the next major release.  It is advised to convert to argme function.
